debezium/dbz#1884 Preliminary support for OSON (Oracle JSON) (#7404)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/oracle.adoc

The {prodname} connector for Oracle does not support the Oracle VECTOR data type.

[id="oracle-json-types"]
=== JSON types

> ifdef::community[]

Reviewer: Insert a blank line after the heading, and then, per (new) style guidelines, provide a short description. The guidelines are also explicit that , modules must not start with an admonition, even when adding the Technology Preview admonition. 

I've reworked the admonition that follows the Tech Preview statement into a paragraph and created the following short description to insert just before the community "incubating" statement. I've inserted the balance of the converted paragraph after the Tech Preview admonition.
 
```suggestion

The {prodname} Oracle connector can capture changes to tables that include `JSON` column types when using the LogMiner adapter with the `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` database feature enabled.

ifdef::community[]
```

[NOTE]
====

> Support for `JSON` is currently in an incubating state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oracle connector support for `JSON` is currently in an incubating state.
```

Depending on the feedback that we receive, the exact semantics, configuration options, and so forth might change in future revisions.
Please let us know if you encounter any problems with using these data types.
====
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Use of the `JSON` with the {prodname} Oracle connector is a Technology Preview feature only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability of the {prodname} Oracle connector to process `JSON` data is a Technology Preview feature only.
```

Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete.
Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.
For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview].
====
endif::product[]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The ability to capture changes for a table that includes a `JSON` column type is limited to the Oracle LogMiner adapter, and requires that `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` database feature be enabled.
> Oracle's support for `JSON` data types is a premium feature that is only available through a GoldenGate license.
> 
> The ability to capture `JSON` data types using the Oracle XStream adapter is currently unsupported.
> This is due to an Oracle OCI driver limitation that does not currently allow the driver to read metadata for tables that contain a `JSON` column type.
> The limitation is present in all Oracle 21.x and 23.x drivers tested through 23.26.1.
> ====

Reviewer: To reduce the risk of admonition fatigue , per my earlier comment, I'd suggest converting this to a paragraph.
```suggestion
The ability to capture changes from tables that include `JSON` columns is limited to the Oracle LogMiner adapter, and requires that the `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` database feature be enabled.
Oracle support for `JSON` data types is a premium feature that is only available through a GoldenGate license.

Because the Oracle OCI driver cannot  read metadata for tables that contain a `JSON` column type, connectors configured to use the Oracle XStream adapter the connector cannot capture `JSON` data. 
This limitation applies to all Oracle 21.x and 23.x drivers tested through version 23.26.1.
```

The {prodname} connector for Oracle does not support the Oracle VECTOR data type.

[id="oracle-json-types"]
=== JSON types

> The {prodname} Oracle connector can capture changes to tables that include `JSON` column types when using the LogMiner adapter with the `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` database feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A {prodname} Oracle connector that uses the LogMiner adapter can capture changes from tables that include `JSON` column types.
To enable capture of JSON types, the database initialization parameter `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` must be  set to `TRUE` to permit GoldenGate services to capture and apply changes across the entire instance.
```

ifdef::community[]
[NOTE]
====
Oracle connector support for `JSON` is currently in an incubating state.
Depending on the feedback that we receive, the exact semantics, configuration options, and so forth might change in future revisions.
Please let us know if you encounter any problems with using these data types.
====
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
The ability of the {prodname} Oracle connector to process `JSON` data is a Technology Preview feature only.
Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete.
Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.
For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview].
====
endif::product[]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The ability to capture changes from tables that include `JSON` columns is limited to the Oracle LogMiner adapter, and requires that the `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` database feature be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Can we drop this here based on the previous mention in the first paragraph?

Oracle support for `JSON` data types is a premium feature that is only available through a GoldenGate license.

> Because the Oracle OCI driver cannot  read metadata for tables that contain a `JSON` column type, connectors configured to use the Oracle XStream adapter the connector cannot capture `JSON` data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Oracle OCI driver cannot read metadata for tables that contain a `JSON` column type, connectors configured to use the Oracle XStream adapter the connector cannot capture `JSON` data.
```
Remove extra space

The {prodname} connector for Oracle does not support the Oracle VECTOR data type.

[id="oracle-json-types"]
=== JSON types

A {prodname} Oracle connector that uses the LogMiner adapter can capture changes from tables that include `JSON` column types.

> To enable capture of JSON types, the database initialization parameter `ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION` must be  set to `TRUE` to permit GoldenGate services to capture and apply changes across the entire instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To permit {prodname} to capture JSON types, set the Oracle database initialization parameter https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/26/refrn/ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION.html[`ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION`] to `TRUE` so that the GoldenGate services can capture changes and apply them across the entire instance.
```

> To permit {prodname} to capture JSON types, set the Oracle database initialization parameter link:++https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/26/refrn/ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION.html[`ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION`] to `TRUE` so that the GoldenGate services can capture changes and apply them across the entire instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To permit {prodname} to capture JSON types, set the Oracle database initialization parameter https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/26/refrn/ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION.html[`ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION`^] to `TRUE` so that the GoldenGate services can capture changes and apply them across the entire instance.
```
For http links, there's no need to use the `link` macro, so I removed it. Also, I don't understand the purpose inserting the `++` string before the URL. I tested this in the AsciiDoc Viewer and Editor and it results in a munged link. If we want the link to open in a new window or tab, we can insert a `^` at the end of the link text.

Author: That could have been an IDEA issue when I pasted your suggestion, will fix.

Author: And its now fixed @roldanbob, thanks! :tada:
